
# Paper: Young & Viall, Scattered light in EIS and AIA datasets

The article "Scattered light in the Hinode/EIS and SDO/AIA instruments measured from the 2012 Venus transit" by Peter R. Young & Nicholeen M. Viall was published in ApJ in 2002 (ApJ, 938, 27). This repository contains files used for data analysis and generating figures. All software are written in IDL. The EIS and AIA Solarsoft libraries are required.

See below for software related to the follow-up paper (Young, Kittrell & Viall) that provides scattered light formulae for the AIA channels 131, 171, 193, 211 and 335.

## AIA data analysis

The key routine is `aia_get_venus.pro`. This takes the set of full-disk AIA images (see below for the full list of files used in the paper). For each one, a sub-image around Venus is displayed in a graphics window. The user clicks on the approximate center of Venus in the image. The next image is then shown, and the user again clicks on the center. This is repeated for the full set of images and an IDL structure is output.

````
r=aia_get_venus()
````

The file `aia_venus_results.save` contains several structures created with `aia_get_venus`. For example, `d050` contains the results for using an outer annulus radius of 50 arcsec and for the set of 26 images at 20 min cadence. `d050x` is the same, but for the extended series of 32 images (see paper for more details). `d100` uses an outer radius of 100 arcsec.

If you have already created a structure and you want to modify the outer radius (for example), then you can send the previous structure as an input to avoid manually selecting the Venus positions.

````
r=aia_get_venus(radius=100,data=d050)
````

## EIS data analysis

The routine `eis_venus_select.pro` was written to derive the Fe XII 195.12 intensity at the center of the Venus shadow. The procedure for running this routine is indicated in the example below:

```
file=eis_find_file('5-jun-2012 23:00',/lev,/seq)
d=eis_venus_select(file=file[0])
```

There are 20 files for this particular pointing, and eis_venus_select is called separately for each of the files. A graphics window is opened and an image will appear. If it's too small, just click outside the plot window, resize the window, then start again. The steps for running the routine are:

1. In the first image click at the approximate center of the Venus shadow. Based on this, the routine identifies the particular exposure that contains most of the Venus shadow.
2. The second image shows a close-up of Venus from the selected exposure. Carefully select the center of the shadow with the mouse. If the center of Venus is too close to the edge of the window, then click somewhere outside the plot window to exit.
3. If you select the center, but see that the displayed box (used to compute the average intensity at the center of the shadow) extends outside of the slot image, then you'll have to manually open the results file and delete the entry.
4. The third panel will show the image from panel 1 again, but with the new Venus position displayed. Make sure that tit's centered in the shadow, as expected.
5. The fourth panel shows the image of the Venus annulus. Make sure that this looks OK. In particular, that you do not see part of the Venus shadow in the annulus.
6. The results get appended into the text file 'eis_venus_new_results.txt'.

## Reading and plotting the EIS results

The results can be read into a structure with

```
d=read_eis_venus_results('results_195.txt',195.12)
```

The plots used for the paper (for Fe XII 195 and Fe XIV 274) were generated with:

```
p=plot_eis_venus_ints('results_195.txt',195.12)
p=plot_eis_venus_ints('results_274.txt',274.20)
```

## Full-disk scaling for EIS data

Section 6 ("EIS data analysis") of the paper contains Table 2, which gives the AIA and EIS intensities used to derive the parameter beta. This table is generated by running the following IDL routine:

```
.r eis_full_disk_scale
```

You will need level-1 versions of the three EIS files for this to work.




## Figures

### Figure 1 - plot_aia_venus.jpg

Shows track of Venus on AIA 193 image.

````
w=plot_aia_venus()
````

### Figure 2 - plot_aia_venus_ints.png

Two-panel plot showing variation of AIA Venus intensity during transit and relation to annulus intensity.

````
w=plot_aia_venus_ints()
````

### Figure 3 - plot_aia_20161123.png

Shows AIA sub-image for a coronal hole.

````
w=plot_aia_20161123()
````

### Figure 4 - plot_eis_image.png

Two panel plot showing slot raster image of Venus (left) and close-up of the Venus exposure (right).

````
w=plot_eis_image()
````

### Figure 5 - plot_eis_venus_ints_195.png

Two panel plot similar to Figure 2, but for EIS.

````
w=plot_eis_venus_ints('results_195.txt',195.12)
````

### Figure 6 - plot_20161123_regions.png

Shows an EIS raster with locations used for coronal hole and quiet Sun.

````
w=plot_20161123_regions()
````

### Figure 7 - plot_eis_venus_ints_274.png

Same as Figure 5, but for Fe XIV 274.20.

````
w=plot_eis_venus_ints('results_274.txt',274.20)
````

### Figure 8 - plot_annulus_193_304_comparison.png

Plot showing results of convolving synthetic annulus images for AIA 193 and 304 with the Grigis PSF.

````
w=plot_annulus_193_304_comparison()
````

### Figure 9 - plot_aia_ann_rad_comparison.png

This is a 2x2 panel plot showing the effect of varying the annulus radius.

```
w=plot_aia_ann_rad_comparison()
```

### Figure 10 - plot_ar_model.png

Two panel plot showing a 193 image from 14-Feb-2011 on the left and a model on the right of how this scenario is simulated.

````
w=plot_ar_model()
````

## AIA files

The following is the list of 32 AIA 193 files that were used for the AIA analysis. They can be downloaded from the JSOC or VSO. In order to use the routine `aia_get_venus` you should put these files in the sub-directory `/aia`.

```
aia.lev1.193A_2012-06-05T21_00_07.84Z.image_lev1.fits
aia.lev1.193A_2012-06-05T21_20_07.84Z.image_lev1.fits
aia.lev1.193A_2012-06-05T21_40_07.84Z.image_lev1.fits
aia.lev1.193A_2012-06-05T21_50_31.84Z.image_lev1.fits
aia.lev1.193A_2012-06-05T22_00_07.84Z.image_lev1.fits
aia.lev1.193A_2012-06-05T22_20_07.84Z.image_lev1.fits
aia.lev1.193A_2012-06-05T22_40_07.84Z.image_lev1.fits
aia.lev1.193A_2012-06-05T23_00_07.84Z.image_lev1.fits
aia.lev1.193A_2012-06-05T23_20_07.84Z.image_lev1.fits
aia.lev1.193A_2012-06-05T23_40_01.84Z.image_lev1.fits
aia.lev1.193A_2012-06-06T00_00_01.84Z.image_lev1.fits
aia.lev1.193A_2012-06-06T00_20_01.84Z.image_lev1.fits
aia.lev1.193A_2012-06-06T00_40_07.84Z.image_lev1.fits
aia.lev1.193A_2012-06-06T01_00_55.84Z.image_lev1.fits
aia.lev1.193A_2012-06-06T01_20_07.84Z.image_lev1.fits
aia.lev1.193A_2012-06-06T01_40_07.84Z.image_lev1.fits
aia.lev1.193A_2012-06-06T02_00_07.84Z.image_lev1.fits
aia.lev1.193A_2012-06-06T02_20_07.84Z.image_lev1.fits
aia.lev1.193A_2012-06-06T02_40_07.84Z.image_lev1.fits
aia.lev1.193A_2012-06-06T03_00_07.84Z.image_lev1.fits
aia.lev1.193A_2012-06-06T03_20_07.84Z.image_lev1.fits
aia.lev1.193A_2012-06-06T03_40_07.84Z.image_lev1.fits
aia.lev1.193A_2012-06-06T03_50_07.84Z.image_lev1.fits
aia.lev1.193A_2012-06-06T04_00_07.84Z.image_lev1.fits
aia.lev1.193A_2012-06-06T04_10_07.84Z.image_lev1.fits
aia.lev1.193A_2012-06-06T04_15_07.84Z.image_lev1.fits
aia.lev1.193A_2012-06-06T04_20_07.84Z.image_lev1.fits
aia.lev1.193A_2012-06-06T04_40_07.84Z.image_lev1.fits
aia.lev1.193A_2012-06-06T04_50_07.84Z.image_lev1.fits
aia.lev1.193A_2012-06-06T05_00_07.84Z.image_lev1.fits
aia.lev1.193A_2012-06-06T05_20_07.84Z.image_lev1.fits
aia.lev1.193A_2012-06-06T05_40_07.84Z.image_lev1.fits
```

#Paper: Young, Kittrell & Viall, Scattered light in five AIA channels

##Python software for getting Venus locations

For the 2022 analysis, the position of Venus in AIA images was obtained by the user manually selecting the center of Venus in the images. For the new analysis, many more images needed to be processed so the Venus position was obtained from ephemeris software available in SunPy. The Venus positions are output to a text file venus_coords.txt that is then read by the IDL software.

To create the text file, you will need a set of regular cadence, full-disk AIA 193 images in your working directory spanning 21:00 5-Jun-2012 to 06:00 6-Jun-2012 (I used 20 min cadence). You can then do the following from the Unix command line:

```
conda activate sunpy
python venus_coords.py
```

##Getting the Venus data with aia_get_venus

To use the Venus location text file, put it in a directory (e.g., ~/home/venus) and then add the following to your IDL startup file:

```
setenv,'VENUS_TRANSIT=~/home/venus'
```

Download the set of AIA images for the channel you are interested in and put them in, e.g., '~/home/venus/aia/171' (for the 171 channel). Now do:

```
IDL> d=aia_get_venus(aia_dir='~/home/venus/aia/171',/circle)
```

For each image, a close-up of Venus will be shown. A large cross shows the predicted location of Venus. A small circle in the center shows the region averaged to yield the D_V intensity.

To plot the results, do

```
IDL> w=plot_aia_venus_ints(d,/no_cadence_check,/no_offlimb_points)
```

The parameters of the fit (c_0, c_1)  are written to the screen.
